A SAR system (satellite) illuminates a scene and passes over an ideal point target, a metallic sphere (reddish color).
The SAR instrument emits frequency modulated pulses (chirps) and records them again after reception.
The reddish rectangular signal in range direction signifies the envelope of the received pulses (ideal target = flat frequency response = rectangular shape).
The ideal target has no angular dependence. Therefore the chirp envelope in azimuth is also flat.
Now the raw data is processed in range direction with an ideal replica (rectangular envelope).
Analogously, the data is processed in azimuth, again with an ideal replica.
The result is interpreted as a gray-scale image.
The actual point target energy (the measurement result of the radiometric measurement) ...
is the integral over the pixel intensities within the cross area.
We now replace the ideal radar target with a real-world target (here: a corner reflector, a typical calibration target).
The RCS of the corner reflector at the center frequency is identical to the RCS of the sphere from before.
The frequency-dependent RCS of the real-world target produces recorded
chirps with a deformed (not rectangular) envelope.
The received pulses are also weighted in azimuth due to the angular-dependent RCS of the target.
Now the raw data is processed again with ideal (flat) chirps.
The measurement result is different, although the reference RCSs of the sphere and the corner reflector are identical.
Same real-world target as before, but now the raw data is processed ...
with weighted range and azimuth chirps (improved side-lobe suppression).
The range and azimuth weighting is typically SAR system and mode dependent.
After compression, the impulse response has been shaped indistinguishably both by the target and the processor.
The radiometric measurement result is consequentely affected.
This has been ignored so far, leading to radiometric measurement errors (ranging from negligible to several decibels)...
when results of different systems are compared.